Update readme (#27)
plone/Plone: README.md

<p align="center">
    <img alt="Plone Logo" width="200px" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/plone/.github/main/plone-logo.png">
</p>

<h1 align="center">
  Plone
</h1>

<div align="center">

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/plone)](https://pypi.org/project/plone/)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/plone)](https://pypi.org/project/plone/)
[![PyPI - Wheel](https://img.shields.io/pypi/wheel/plone)](https://pypi.org/project/plone/)
[![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/plone)](https://pypi.org/project/plone/)
[![PyPI - Status](https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/plone)](https://pypi.org/project/plone/)

[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/plone/Products.CMFPlone)](https://github.com/plone/Products.CMFPlone)
![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/plone/Plone?style=flat-square)

</div>

> Plone is a mature, secure, and user-friendly Content Management System (CMS).

Reviewer: English is weird. The term should be lower-cased, yet the acronym is upper-cased.

```suggestion
Plone is a mature, secure, and user-friendly content management system (CMS).
```

Plone was first released to the public on October 4, 2001.

Plone has the maturity, stability, and reliability of an application maintained by open source developers with decades of experience, while continually evolving and adapting to modern technology.

Lots of customizations can be made trough-the-web, such as creating content types, themes, workflows, and much more.

> Pushed one step further Plone can be used as a framework on which to build custom CMS-like solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plone may be extended and used as a framework on which to build custom CMS-like solutions.
```

Plone works as a

> - Full-featured classical server-side rendered CMS,

Reviewer: Taking @fredvd's lead:

```suggestion
- Full-featured server-side rendered HTML CMS.
```

> - Headless CMS that offers all features as a REST API.

Reviewer: Taking @fredvd's lead:

```suggestion
- React-based frontend for editing and viewing content, backed by a server with a REST API.
- Headless CMS server with a REST API, allowing a developer to build a custom frontend with their chosen technology.
```

<h2 align="center">
  Installing Plone
</h2>

Plone is available on Linux, Microsoft Windows, macOS, and BSD platforms.

Plone may be run as a container in the cloud with Docker and other Open Containers Initiative compliant platforms.

> 

Reviewer: Per @fredvd.

```suggestion
[Example Dockerfiles](https://6.docs.plone.org/install/containers/images/index.html) and base images are available.

```

[Install Plone by choosing an option from plone.org](https://plone.org/download)

<h2 align="center">
  Documentation
</h2>

Consult [the official Plone documentation](https://docs.plone.org) with information for different audiences.

For trainings [comprehensive Plone training material](https://training.plone.org) is available.

<h2 align="center">
  What is Plone?
</h2>

Plone is a ready-to-run content management system, offering a complete set of features needed by a wide variety of organizations.

Security is built into Plone's architecture from the ground up.
Plone offers fine-grained permission control over content and actions.

Plone is easy to set up, extremely flexible,
and provides you with a system for managing web content that is ideal for project groups, communities, websites, extranets, and intranets.

- **Plone is easy to install.**
  Several installation options are available for either your local machine or on servers in the cloud.

> - **Plone empowers content editors and webmasters.**

Reviewer: Go with a gender neutral title.

```suggestion
- **Plone empowers content editors and web application developers.**
```

  The Plone Team includes usability experts who have made Plone easy and attractive for content managers to add, update, and maintain content.

- **Plone is international.**
  The Plone interface has more than 35 translations, and tools exist for managing multilingual content.

- **Plone follows standards and is inclusive.**
  Plone carefully follows standards for usability and accessibility.

>   Plone pages are compliant with US Section 508, and the W3C's AAA rating for accessibility.

Reviewer 2: Plone adheres to WCAG level AA and aims for ATAG level AA

- **Plone is open source.**
  Plone is licensed under the GNU General Public License, the same license used by Linux.
  This gives you the right to use Plone without a license fee, and to improve upon the product.

- **Plone is supported.**

>   There are over three hundred developers in the Plone Development Team around the world, and a multitude of companies that specialize in Plone development and support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  There are over two hundred active developers in the Plone Development Team around the world, and a multitude of companies that specialize in Plone development and support.
```

- **Plone is extensible.**
  There is a multitude of add-on products for Plone to add new features and content types.
  In addition, Plone can be scripted using web standard solutions and open source languages.

- **Plone is technology neutral.**

>   Plone can interoperate with most relational database systems, open source, and commercial, and runs on a vast array of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Plone can interoperate with most relational database systems—both open source and commercial—and runs on a vast array of
```

Plone works as a

- Full-featured classical server-side rendered CMS,
- Headless CMS that offers all features as a REST API.

<h2 align="center">
  Installing Plone
</h2>

> Plone is available on Microsoft Windows, Linux, macOS, and BSD platforms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Plone is available on Linux, Microsoft Windows, macOS, and BSD platforms.
```

Plone is easy to set up, extremely flexible,
and provides you with a system for managing web content that is ideal for project groups, communities, websites, extranets, and intranets.

- **Plone is easy to install.**

>   Several installation options are available for either your local machine or on servers in the cloud.

Reviewer: Agreed. Plone is not easy to install, even though it easier than before. Our install docs still need work. I think this section should be removed.

>   Several installation options are available for either your local machine or on servers in the cloud.

Reviewer 4: With the docker options its easy and mainstream IMO.

> - **Plone is easy to use.**

Reviewer 5: "Plone empower content editors and webmasters"

  The Plone Team includes usability experts who have made Plone easy and attractive for content managers to add, update, and maintain content.

- **Plone is international.**
  The Plone interface has more than 35 translations, and tools exist for managing multilingual content.

> - **Plone is standard.**

Reviewer 5: "Plone follows standard and is inclusive"

Reviewer 6: follows standards, not standard

  Plone carefully follows standards for usability and accessibility.
  Plone pages are compliant with US Section 508, and the W3C's AAA rating for accessibility.

- **Plone is Open Source.**
  Plone is licensed under the GNU General Public License, the same license used by Linux.
  This gives you the right to use Plone without a license fee, and to improve upon the product.

- **Plone is supported.**

>   There are over three hundred developers in the Plone Development Team around the world, and a multitude of companies that specialize in Plone development and support.

Reviewer: Is that still correct, or has the number grown? I'm not sure how you would count "developers". Perhaps this? https://github.com/orgs/plone/people

Reviewer 7: I have queried github api this afternoon.
I count commits from more than 300 devs since the beginning of 2022 in the plone organization.

Reviewer 7: Our three developer stars are @mauritsvanrees @sneridagh and @jensens 😉

Reviewer 7: More precisely:
146 committers in 2021 
141 in 2022.
For a total of 196 committers.
96 among them committed both years.

Reviewer: Is that the GitHub Plone organization only, or does it include collective and zope?

Reviewer 7: @stevepiercy For now `plone` only. I am improving my script before running it on zope and collective.

- **Plone is extensible.**
  There is a multitude of add-on products for Plone to add new features and content types.
  In addition, Plone can be scripted using web standard solutions and Open Source languages.

- **Plone is technology neutral.**
  Plone can interoperate with most relational database systems, open source, and commercial, and runs on a vast array of

>   platforms, including Linux, Windows, Mac OS X, Solaris, and BSD.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about Solaris still being supported. Also maybe combine Linux and BSD? I typically just say "Linux", but I reckon that purists would want to make a distinction.

```suggestion
  platforms, including Linux, Windows, macOS, and BSD.
```

Reviewer 5: I'd like to suggest one extra 'argument' for Plone:

** Plone can't be bought. **

Plone is  Open Source licensend and the code is fully owned by the non profit Plone Foundation to protect the project and code from being bought by any other entitty or competitor to do it any harm like stopping support, development or force you to migrate.

<h2 align="center">
Technical overview
</h2>

> Plone is a content management platform written in Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plone is a content management platform with its backend written in Python.
Plone has a choice of frontend, either Classic UI using server-side templates or Volto written in modern React-based JavaScript.
```

files, etc.

<h2 align="center">
Official Resources
</h2>

> * [plone.org](https://plone.org/) - Official website for developers, community, decision makers and evaluators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [plone.org](https://plone.org/) - Official website for developers, community, decision makers, and evaluators.
```

* [Plone support](https://plone.org/support) - Where to find help.
* [community.plone.org](https://community.plone.org/) - Official community forum, the best place to get help.

> * [docs.plone.org](https://docs.plone.org/) - Official documentation for developers/integrators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [docs.plone.org](https://docs.plone.org/) - Official documentation for developers, integrators, and content editors.
```

> * [training.plone.org](https://training.plone.org/) - Training classes for developers/integrators/users/designers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [training.plone.org](https://training.plone.org/) - Trainings for developers, integrators, content editors, and designers.
```

> * [plone.api](https://docs.plone.org/develop/plone.api/docs/index.html) - Documentation for plone.api.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`plone.api`](https://docs.plone.org/develop/plone.api/docs/index.html) - Documentation for `plone.api`.
```

> * [plone.restapi](https://plonerestapi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) - Documentation for plone.restapi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`plone.restapi`](https://plonerestapi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) - Documentation for `plone.restapi`.
```

> * [official Discord chat](https://discord.gg/zFY3EBbjaj) - monitored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Discord](https://discord.gg/zFY3EBbjaj) - Official Plone chat, voice, and video service.
```
